# Contents 
Essays written for FIYS 136: Athena and Apollo 

# Course Instructor
Dustin Mengelkoch

# Course Description 
FIYS Courses are first year studies courses required by Lake Forest College to assess students writting skills. They also provide an opportunity to meet other first year students <br> <br>
Early in the Iliad, the half-sibling gods Apollo and Athena descend on the walls of Troy as vultures to watch staged, single combat. This spectacle of slaughter is often used to point out the gods' grim pleasure in abusing humans – their disguises as carrion birds being highly symbolic. Yet, both gods were revered for their influences on human lives and culture. Apollo, the dissolute god of oracles and disease, could reveal the future, then take it away. Athena, the chaste goddess of combat and intellect, was a skilled artisan, the advocate of cunning heroes and sophisticated city-states. Intriguingly, both gods were understood to be avatars of reason and justice. Yet, over millennia it will be Athena who widely comes to embody wisdom and reason, while Apollo comes to represent the fine arts, especially poetry and music. Why is this so? How did this happen? In this course, we dig into the seductive mythmaking surrounding each god and give account to the crude experience of human ambition which co-opted and altered their myths to explain fraught historical realities.

# September Essay 
For this paper, write 700-800 words (minimum) about the ritual supplication of Athena in Callimachus and Homer’s poems – that is, lines 1-62 in Callimachus’ hymn and lines 6.299-327 in the Iliad. Naturally you will be summarizing these portions in one way or another as you see it fit, but your goal is present the portions of these poems in relation to each other and to use the correct vocabulary to do so. Each poem shares a specific connection to the Greek hero Diomedes, so this link is worth teasing out. Moreover, because Callimachus’ poem is written after that of Homer’s you have a historical reckoning worth thinking through as well. One caveat: you are not an historian of ancient Greek culture; rather, you are concerned with what is being potentially memorialized in word given our brief encounters with poems so far. So, the poems are your sole resources.

# October Essay 
We have read quite a lot so far this semester and now we are entering a period where the myths of Athena and Apollo start to interact with a literary culture, meaning one that is self-aware and literate. The Oresteia -- the three-play sequence of Agamemnon, Libation Bearers, and Eumenides-- by Aeschylus touches on concerns of historical Athens and wider Greek culture through older myths.
<br>
One of the myths at the heart of the first play, Agamemnon, is that of Cassandra, a daughter of Priam and Hecuba and a priestess of Apollo who was abducted from the temple of Athena at Troy. Taken from Troy at the end of the war, she is brought to Argos, Agamemnon's home, only to be killed shortly after arriving. Her story is peculiar in any number of ways but was ultimately well known and regarded by Greek culture, even making it all the way in to the Roman era 500 years after the Oresteia is performed. There are subtle changes to the way the story is represented over time and via the different media within which it is transmitted.
<br>
Your assignment is to scrutinize the Cassandra myth by using three primary sources: the play Agamemnon, vase paintings, and a Roman fresco. Each of these resources is on Moodle. You will be seeking answers to central questions like: What about the Cassandra myth explains important concepts about the powers and attributes of Athena and Apollo? How are these reinforced in the play and outside of it? Etc. Nota bene: Your focus is on Athena and Apollo; Cassandra is just a vehicle for such consideration.

# November Essay
We've read a great deal about the will of Apollo and Athena this fall. In the Roman era, there was a saying that many writers used to express trying to surpass their own limits: "invita Minerva." When they did so they often had both the notion of against "the will of Minerva" (the almost literal translation of the phrase) in mind alongside a more open-ended notion, like "beyond one's talent or current ability." What's interesting to note is that the saying ascribed to Apollo's temple at Delphi, gnothi se auton (know thyself), is both present here and absent. Naturally, knowing oneself is to know one's limits, but it also suggests moderation as the key in resolving where those limits are. The other saying, invita Minerva, suggests pushing yourself to your limits to be able to find them -- and perhaps to move them forward as well.
<br>
Your final assignment is to write a brief, 500-word essay about pushing yourself to your limits in the face of long odds and untested ability. This essay can be about succeeding or failing, with the latter being far more interesting than the former. But the choice is yours.
